Que1 What is the difference between compiler and interpreter ? 

Answer 
 
 Compiler is a software which takes HLL(High Level Language ) as an input and gives 
 MLL(Machine Level Language ) as output. complier reads the HLL code in one go. 

 Interpeter is a software which takes HLL as input and gives MLL as output. It reads 
 the HLL code multiple times. 

performace- 

 1. compiler will speed up the process but Interpeter will slow down the process. 
 2. Compiler will scan the problems in one go but Interpeter will take time . Scan
    the code line by line according to the instruction. 


Question 2. What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM? 

Answer - 

 JDK - It stands for Java Development Kit. To execute java Machine need suitable environment
       and to provide suitable envinronemet we need to install JDK softwares. 

 JRE - It stand for the Java RunTime Envinronemet. It is responsible to provide suitable 
       environment. It is installed in the machine when we install JDK software. 

 JVM - JVM stands for java virtual machine. Which is responsible to execute the program 
       on the basis of Multi Threading. 



   Q3.How many types of memory areas are allocated by JVM?             

   Answer- The JVM divides its memory into two main catogaries- Heap memory  and 
            non heap memory. 


    Q4.What is JIT compiler? 

    Answer - JIT compiler stands for Just In Time Compiler. It is component of RunTime 
             Envinronemet which boost the performace of java application by compiling
             the byte codes to the native machines at RunTime.  

    
    Q5.What are the various access specifiers in Java? 

    Answer- In java there are four access specifiers that controls the visiblity and 
            accessiblity of classes, methods and variables. 

            1. public- allows unrestricted access from anywhere in the program. public 
               members can also be accessed in other packages also. 

            2. private -  allows restricted access in the same class. private members 
               cannot be inherited by the other classes or subclasses. 

            3. Protected - allows access in the same class where the member is defined. 

            4. Default - allows access in the same Package. 



           Q6.What is a compiler in Java? 

           Answer - 

           Compiler is software in java Which converts the HLL(High Level Language) to 
           Bytes Codes. (Low Level Language) So that Machine can understand it. 
           Bytes Codes are not HLL nor MLL it is mix of these.  

           Bytes code are further compiled by JVM and gives OutPut in MLL. 



           Q7.Explain the types of variables in Java?

           Answer - 

           There are Different types of Variables in java - 

           1. Local Varibles - 

           Local of are declared inside a method, Constructor, code block  and the scope of Local varible are a the 
           scope of as the same of method,Constructor , codeblock . 

           2. Instance Varibles - 
            
            Instance Varibles are declared outside the method but inside the class. 
            Each instance class has its own copy of its instance Varibles . 


            3. Static Varibles - Static Varibles are declared with a static keyWord. 
            and shared by instances(objects) . They are initialized with default values. 

            4. Parameters - Parameters are defined inside method Signature. 


       
       Q8.What are the Datatypes in Java?


       Answer- 

       Java is Statically typed programming Language. so we have to defined the type of 
       data when we want to store something. 

       1. Primitive Data Type - 
        
        Byte, short  int , long ,float ,double , char, boolean 


      2. Reference Data Type 

       Strings , Arrays , Classes 

       3. Derived Data Types - Enum , Interface , Annotations. 


       Q9.What are the identifiers in java? 

       Identifiers are the name used to identity of varibles, classes , mehtod. 

       Rules for Indetifiers - 
        
        1. Indetifiers must start whth a-z or A-Z or symbols _ or $ is allowed 

        2. After first letter identifiers can also contain 1-9 digits. 

        3. Reserved keywords can not be used as identifies in java. 

        4. Identifiers should me meaningful. 



        Q10.Explain the architecture of JVM


        Answer 

        The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is responsible for executing Java bytecode. 
        It consists of the Class Loader, Runtime Data Areas (Method Area, Heap, Java
         Stack, Native Method Stack, PC Register), Execution Engine
        (Interpreter and JIT Compiler), and Native Method Interface (JNI).
        The JVM loads and verifies class files, manages memory, executes bytecode, 
        and provides a bridge for interacting with native code. It ensures 
        platform independence and automatic memory management in Java programs.



 

        